{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Summary/Overview of the project : Analyzing Amazon Stock Trends Through Time Series Forecasting\

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b Data Compilation:\

\f1\b0 The very first task was obtaining the datasets. Data acquisition was facilitated utilizing the Yahoo Finance API and the `yfinance` library in Python. Amazon (AMZN) stock prices spanning from January 1, 2014, to January 1, 2024, were gathered, encompassing daily metrics such as Open, High, Low, Close, and Volume. The dataset underwent meticulous processing and was structured into a pandas DataFrame to facilitate subsequent analysis and model construction.\
\

\f0\b Exploration and Visual Representation of Data:\

\f1\b0 Now, to delve into the nuances of stock price trends, a comprehensive moving average analysis transpired. Visualizations were crafted, spotlighting a 100-day moving average in red and a 200-day moving average in blue. These visual cues facilitated a qualitative assessment of Amazon's stock performance across temporal dimensions.\
\

\f0\b Innovative Time Series Prediction Model:\

\f1\b0 The predictive aspect of the project employed a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural network, leveraging the capabilities of the `keras` library. Training encompassed 80% of the available data, with the remaining 20% reserved for testing. MinMax scaling normalized the input data, utilizing a sequence of 100 prior closing prices to forecast subsequent closures. The LSTM model architecture featured multiple layers, incorporating dropout regularization to forestall overfitting.\
\

\f0\b Model Training and Assessment:\

\f1\b0 Over the course of 50 epochs and a batch size of 32, the LSTM model underwent training. Mean squared error loss was minimized through the application of the Adam optimizer. Evaluation occurred on the testing dataset, culminating in predictions for closing prices. The trained model aptly discerned temporal patterns in historical stock prices, demonstrating commendable performance.\
\

\f0\b Results and Visual Impact:\

\f1\b0 Now, we recliberated the predictions to their original values for a detailed juxtaposition with actual stock prices. The outcome was visually depicted, with predicted prices showcased in red and original prices in green. The visual representation effectively communicates the model's adeptness in capturing overarching trends and fluctuations in Amazon stock prices.\
\

\f0\b Project Culmination:\

\f1\b0 The successful realization of this initiative underscores the adept implementation of a time series forecasting model for Amazon stock prices. The utilization of an LSTM neural network facilitated the modeling of intricate temporal patterns in the data. The results derived from the trained model furnish valuable insights into potential trajectories of future stock prices. Opportunities for further enhancements and optimizations exist to bolster the model's accuracy and resilience in real-world scenarios.}